In this lecture, we'll have a look at Administrative Distance in the lab.
So I've got the usual topology
here, R1 through to R5. The IP addresses are already configured, and right now, I'm running RIP along
the top path between routers R1 and R4, R5 does not have any routing protocols configured
on there. So,
let's have a look at this.
So I'll go into the command line on R1,
I can do a 'show ip protocols' and you'll see that the only protocol I've got running right now is RIP.
And if I do a 'show ip route' you can see I've got my RIP routes, the routing protocol, in the table and
they've got an Administrative Distance of 120, which is the AD for RIP.
So next up I will configure IS-IS, which is the next most preferred Administrative Distance.
I've got my configuration ready here, and I will paste it onto the routers. Actually, you know you've seen
me doing this before,
so I'll just pause the video and I will paste in the IS-IS config on each of the routers.
Okay, so I'm back again,
I've pasted in the config. I'll do a 'show ip protocols' on R1 again, and you can see I'm running RIP and
if I scroll through, you'll see I'm also running IS-IS as well.
If I do a 'show ip route', it's the IS-IS routes that made it into the routing table.
I can also do a 'show ip rip database', and you can see I'm learning RIP routes as well. So if you look at the routing
table,
my IS-IS routes have got an AD of 115, which is more preferred to the AD of 120 on RIP.
So, that's why it's my IS-IS routes that are making it into the routing table.
The next most preferred IGP is OSPF, so let's configure that on our routers.
This one doesn't take long to enable, so you can just bear with me as I paste these in. So I'll put that
on R1, on R2, R3, and R4, and we're not configuring a routing protocol on R5.
Okay, back onto R1 again, and I can do my 'show ip protocols' command.
Now, you see I'm running RIP, and I'm running IS-IS, and I'm running OSPF as well now.
And if I do a 'show ip route', my OSPF routes
hasn't converged yet.
We'll give it a second for the adjacencies to come up.
This shouldn't take too long.
Okay, I'll pause a video again.
Oh there we go, alright.
So they just actually came up
now, and might need to give it a second on the other routers as well.
Let's have a look for a 'show ip route' and I can see that it hasn't fully converged, so
I've still got some IS-IS routes in there but there is an OSPF route that's made into the routing table.
Again, it's preferred over the IS-IS route because it's got a better Administered Distance of 110.
Okay, and the last one to do is EIGRP. So let's
copy and paste this from notepad again.
Again, I can put the same config in all of the routers, so
this will just take a second. So there's R1, R2, R3, and R4.
And if I go back to R1, EIGRP does converge very quickly so hopefully it will show up by the time
I get to looking at the routing table. Let's do a 'show ip protocols' again, and I can see I'm running RIP, ISIS,
OSPF, and EIGRP now.
And if I have a look at the routing table with a 'show ip route', a 'D' is for EIGRP.
It's my EIGRP routes that are making it into the routing table because they've got an Administrative Distance of 90,
which is most preferred.
I've still got an IS-IS route in here for 203.0.113.0 network because I didn't include that in any
of the other routing protocols.
Okay,
so you saw Administrative Distance in action.
Let's go back to the topology diagram, and what I'm going to do now is configure a Floating Static route.
My routing protocols are only running along the top path routers, from R1 to R4. I've not configured
a routing protocol on R5. And what I'm going to do on R1 is configure a backup route to the
10.1.2.0 network behind R4 to go through R5 instead. So, I need to create an IP route to
10.1.2.0/24 with a next hop of 10.0.3.2.
I would also need a static route from R4, sorry, from R5 to R4, and also static routes
coming back in the other direction, but I only need to do it on R1 just to show you the Floating Static
route working. So, let's do that now.
Back on the command line on R1, I'll go 'config t',
and then I'm going to create an IP route for 10.1.2.0 255.255.255.0, and the next hop
is on R5, which was 10.0.3.2. Now, I won't do it as a Floating Static route first.
I'll just do this as a normal static route, and when I enter this, you see that before my route to the
10.1.2.0 network was learned through EIGRP, and the next hop was 10.0.0.2, which is on R2.
If I do a 'do show ip route' now, you'll see that my route to 10.1.2.0 has been replaced with the
static route because it's got an Administrative Distance of 1, which is better. But for our example,
I only want this to be a backup. I don't want it to be the preferred route. So, what I need to do is remove
that route. So I'll hit the up arrow twice, and then Ctrl-A to go back to the start of the line, and then enter
'no' to remove it. And then, I'll put the same command and again, but this time, I will give it an Administrative
Distance of 95, which is higher, and therefore, worse than the Administrative Distance of 90
in EIGRP. So when I enter that, the EIGRP route should be put back into the routing table again.
So I'll do a 'show ip route' to see if it's in there yet.
There we go, the EIGRP route is back in the routing table again. I don't see the static route because it is
not the best route. It doesn't make it into the routing table. But it is there, sitting as a backup though.
So let's look at the topology diagram again, and the interface to get out to R2 is fastEthernet0/0.
So if I shut that down, it should failover to using my backup route.
So, let's try that.
So I'll go 'config t' and 'interface fastEthernet0/0' and do a 'shutdown' here, and EIGRP should detect that.
So you see EIGRP detected that the neighbor went down, and if I do a 'show ip route' now, I'll see that my static
route has made it into the routing table, so my backup worked. Okay,
that was Administrative Distance. See you in the next lecture.